the answer to the puzzle of white wins
with the same genes can be different
ways it seems to be this Specter now
believes it's not enough just to have a
gene it has to be activated or switched
on and the larger twin had her fat genes
switched on where her thinner sister
hadnít something is switched in has just
switched some of their genes from one
position to another and that has altered
what's happened to their metabolism and
because they're so similar the our idea
is we can track down what that those
chemicals are and what those genes are
that have been changed between the two
this new science of how the environment
can switch your genes on and off is
becoming more and more important across
with medicine
it's called epigenetics but the question
now is what was causing these genes to
be switched on or off Spectre has been
looking for something that sets one
twins experience apart from that of the
other maybe got a bit more attention
that's got hospital and with my mom
and so I suppose I had stresses early on
doing to their mama yeah yeah when did
any changes you know when do when do you
think the changes occurred or you
noticed any differences between you I
think the changes happens when she got
married
and moved away I was married but I had
family closer to me Angela didn't have
any family closer to her and I think
that's possibly when it yeah to change
it I think that's probably when it did
I'm just aware as we're talking to these
ladies that there are so many things
that might go on at any one time between
the lives of two different women how do
we know that we're not just randomly
selecting factors that could be
confounded by hundreds of other factors
you're absolutely right and taking one
pair a snapshot if you like of your life
in retrospect which is full of perhaps
false memories is not a reliable way of
doing science so none of what I'm saying
is gonna be based on one or two and twin
stories but only by doing this
systematically across hundreds of twins
to see what the common factors are
inspector things common factors in all
his twins his theory is that stress can
create parallel but different destinies
what was interesting was three out of
the five pairs did give us a story of
how when they were put under stress they
reacted differently for me what's so
exciting about spectres work is that if
he can understand what turns the facts
which on he might find a way to turn it
off again to stop obesity in its tracks
I think it's very exciting if we look
into the future we already know many of
the genes are responsible for obesity
we're going to find hundreds and
thousands more but the key to this is
how we can change those genes
[Music]
what professor Spector was saying quite
strongly to the twins today was even if
something has happened to predispose one
of you to putting weight on wear the
other one has been free of that this is
not set in stone and you could do things
although it might be difficult which
could reverse whatever second law has
taken place which has led to one of you
being fatter and one of you being
thinner
you